what you just did then but to do like a
brief intro you know what you're doing
okay what I'm doing we didn't talk about
that very go ahead you know why Michael
meet you you and you tell me I'll under
skin so he's heard of this izel lays out
guys even mirza [ __ ] eyes on master on a
[ __ ] is other not that i
announce it is a mother google but my
first name is izel I'm yeah I have a
different nickname in every country I've
lived in so in China my nickname in
Chinese that you may have seen on my
website www Azure com is the big shadow
literally this is a way of translating
the long shadow so I am I am tall but
it's it's a funny nickname because it
has more than one double entendre
attached to it I did two job interviews
in the same day like this via Skype
probably wearing the same suit jacket I
remember one of the people one of the
Chinese people said to me that's a
stupid nickname why did you choose that
nickname Chinese and the other person
other job you same day was like yeah
that's that's a good nickname huh
interesting so yeah do you have any do
you have a Hebrew name yet or no you
just use no no I think they tried to I
think my name sounds like a car or
common or something like that I don't
know how long have you lived in Thailand
in total do you have a tie nickname or a
tie I don't think very long it was sort
of three months straight but I mean that
wasn't four words about a year and a
half okay well it's funny because you
see how it is with with YouTube and
social media I associate you with
Thailand but i don't really know like no
like it's just the way it is like you
see videos and you think of somebody has
attached to Thailand but like I don't
really know like how you think of
Thailand or what what importance is had
in your life if any you have a brother
living in Vietnam I take it or no yeah
yeah my brothers living everything he's
been at the nearly three years he's gone
back to Australia soon to get married
and I don't know what he'll do after
that well for me
no politically and linguistically I had
nothing to do with Vietnam I was really
involved with Thailand Cambodia Laos and
then to a lesser extent myanmar Sri
Lanka that was the part of the world I
lived in and in terms of Buddhism all
the countries i just mentioned are part
of the tera vaada Buddhist world so it's
a different religion and a different
written tradition different historical
tradition and Vietnam is is part of the
Mahayana Buddhist world so they are two
different forms of Buddhism so I first
lived in Hong Kong then in Taiwan's this
is after i finish universe to add
visited some places before that yeah
yeah guess 2002 2003 so starting back
then I had this long period where I
never went back to Canada and then so
let's started with Hong Kong Taiwan and
then Thailand and it was at that point
that I broke away from working in
museums at a series of jobs and museums
that let me save up a little bit of
money and while I mentioned this you
well I was in Thailand that was a golden
period for travel because there was a
corruption case against the the thai
thai airways the the thai airplane
company so for a brief period due to do
two wonderful corruption the the flights
were really really cheap within within
thailand so I full-time job was kept me
very busy but I would have like two days
off work and I would actually buy an
airplane ticket and go to somewhere like
chiang mai chiang mai chiang rai some
obscure town in the north east so when I
had that job in Bangkok I actually was
exploring the north I think I made one
really brief trip also defend the
capital city of Laos and then I thought
okay my job with which was inside
technically was inside taxon
Shinawatra's government does the former
prime minister of thailand very fraught
time both emotionally and intellectually
to be involved in Thai politics I met
the guy he was basically the number two
I did meet the the vice president of
Tyler at that time but I also met sorry
now I forget is it vice president or
vice prime minister I forget it hey wait
but you know when I got there tax and
Shinawatra soon after he came into
office he had actually massacred over
2,000 people in what was justified as a
war on drugs very interesting episode in
history the total body count was later
raised over 3,000 and they did it in the
old fashioned way
of having a series of government
meetings making up lists of who to be
killed and killing people with no trials
and no investigation and so on so as
interesting the taxon government in some
ways it was a period of hope for
democracy and in some ways because he
did that the minute after he came into
office he carried out this massacre that
never really got properly investigated
or handled it blackened democracy
discredited democracy and then we had a
series of things where he shut down
radio stations that criticized them and
that sort of thing and then finally the
coup d'etat so I just mention so it was
relatively briefly in Bangkok working in
the museum service for that government
and getting better informed what was
really going on in Thailand but already
at that time what I really wanted was
humanitarian work in the more poverty
stricken area so I was looking at the
border with Myanmar refugee camps
looking at the border with cambodia
border with Laos I really considered
going the Myanmar route but I ended up
going to Laos but anyway finally when
the taxes and government fell I was in
Laos and working for the Lao government
and I got to see their reactions so
today I just mentioned as an example
there's a great website for a foundation
called freedom house and freedom house
gives a very rough and ready measurement
of what is and what is not a democracy
which is quite useful that I think it's
on a five-point scale or six points I
forget now but you know it's just you
know it's like do they have elections or
not is it possible for newspapers to
criticize the government ah it's just a
couple of simple points but the sad fact
is that during my lifetime all of
Southeast Asia has gotten less and less
democratic including Thailand itself
which no military dictatorship and it
used to be a democracy even though it
was democracy with with profound
problems reason that wasn't Yeah right
for you thank you yeah it's it's
happened repeatedly during my lifetime
and I'm not that old so yeah that whole
region yes I don't know how old is he do
you know anyway oh wait yeah yeah he did
mention that he didn't mention that
right I think they're not but anyway
yeah so you know Thailand Cambodia Laos
there was hope for democracy when I
first got there and today is sadly I
think you could say there is no hope so
that stuff again I think I think any
one whose interests in the region should
be says to you if you want to be more
than a tourist oh it's all this okay
kajak all right can I guys welcome back
to my channel you're watching me here
Jason Vezina and i'm joined with go for
it izel measured first name izel last
name Ezard oh yeah pronounced abolish
yell die why I'll link it down below
yeah pardon my french at bala co hey i
got a story back from from the thai
fruit festival from the last one where
they told me that someone sent me fan
mail saying that there were group of
people sitting around talking about my
videos the videos that were at that time
and they were excited about they said
yeah you've got to check out this this
channel uh a vast Lucille yes and the
girl came away she wrote it down a BBA s
like she thought it was an Arabic name
like a bass it's a mistake anyone could
makes you know so I'm talking to you
because you tell me I don't know nice
hearing from you Jason let me know so
I've been watching a lot of idols videos
on YouTube lightly and make some really
good points to do its big anism with
politics with you know just the world in
general on how like you can see the
veganism community shifting in certain
ways and you know what we can do to
improve the community actually get some
good yeah action taken and just to see
things improve in a more positive way so
you know I was really inspired by your
videos stuff that you've talked about
i'll link it down below guys as i said
before and you can check out videos he's
done on other other people here in the
community and you know topics politics
and stuff it's nice to hear that from
you i just say i don't take it for
granted it reflects well on your
character that you're capable of seeing
my channel and responding to it
positively are seeing it as constructive
criticism more inspirational or what if
you want to say well no I plenty of
people just respond and say who the hell
is I think he is so you know you know it
says something about you you know you
know and you know for your background
you've been going through universities
as you're just chatting briefly before
you've gone through
our high school into our universities
and then I guess you've got the
experience as to what you've studied you
know what politics and languages and
yeah wars and conflicts and bennington
veganism as well Buddhism yeah I mean
you know I think the reality is I would
have become vegan anyway without ending
that other stuff so like I can't say
it's strictly related but yeah my first
University diploma is in political
science when I finished that diploma a
lot of what I had to do involve the
Buddhist world specifically the tera
vaada Buddhist world in Southeast Asia
but I always did modern politics as well
as ancient history and that made me
unique so like when I talk to other
people about Buddhism people with PhDs
people with an academic background they
often had a very rose-colored glasses
view of Buddhism and my idea of Buddhism
included slavery included war wars both
ancient and modern included torture
questions with the ethics of torture are
quite interesting in Buddhism I mean
people frightened but now but you know
after September 11th back in 2001 there
was also a lot of debate about torture
you know in Western politics you know
like the Americans Americans using
tortured zone you know to me all that
all that stuff was interesting too so I
was I was very unusual and being kind of
a political realist interested in both
ancient history and modern history I
mean somewhat I before I was also
somebody who was always motivated by a
combination of humanitarian work
humanitarian interests and research so I
took all this together with my useless
bachelor's degree in political science k
get you a job and came to Southeast Asia
and then since then I've been back to
University a couple times my current
university degree is in Asian Studies
and if you follow my channel you'll get
to see what happens next in my
fascinating life so anything could
happen from here how did a China to you
know is where next Israel may be right
Israel and you know I think I mentioned
in my other video I applied for a great
job in in Poland did you catch that sure
well I don't know a charming town called
ash wets have you heard of it or no yeah
yeah anyway don't worry we'll skip over
there it's cool okay yeah what happens
next to my boring life you get to find
it on my youtube channel
boring life which we will you know fully
delve into it take some of that
knowledge from all right we're gonna
talk women cool so with all that you
know what pick me up from your channel
and you know what I started watching is
you know like the constant drama that
keeps circulating through the vegan
community and I guess I wanted to get
your views on it you know from your
experience having studied politics and
how you see these things going and
especially because you you got a bit of
interest in you know dictatorships and
learning how those things work
especially with the car situation in
Thailand where it's gone into a military
dictatorship as you're saying yeah look
I mean you know a video already made in
the recent past had the title of drama
but not meaningless drama and I think
that's a really important point to make
me tell you about this issue of drama of
infighting within veganism I think there
is a really deep difference between
people who are disputing real issues
that they really care about and people
creating conflicts either because they
think it will make them money make them
popular bring them more views or for
some other reason you know sometimes you
know two guys have slept with the same
woman and there's jealousy like they're
fighting for a real reason but it's
meaningless for the outside public you
know I those things happen they can
happen to high school that can happen
YouTube the cabin social media so I'm
not saying this with like a lack of
sympathy for the human heart and the
type of drama people get into but in
that earlier video I mean I pointed out
I I do really believe in debate being
like a knife sharpening a knife you know
both parties you know kind of become
sharper we sharpen our own minds we tend
to define the terms we use more
precisely and more clearly like both
sides whether or not they say oh gee I
hadn't thought about it that way before
even if I'm disagreeing with you part of
the process is I figure out precisely in
what way I disagree with you and I'm
challenge to explain why I disagree with
you so that's really a crucially
important thing in politics of any kind
of any scale from the smallest scale of
like five people trying to organize a
vegan magazine or a vegan charity up to
you know a whole nation I give you a
really surreal example you know during
the cam boat
in civil war the British government
actually supported the Communist side
including under Margaret Thatcher who
was anti-communist she supported the
Khmer Rouge and you can get this out of
the the hansard is the official name for
the record of parliamentary debates and
there's some surreal quotes from
Margaret Thatcher herself where murga
Thatcher's asked for this look why why
are we supporting that side and she says
things so British well you know uh
people say that Pol Pot is a bad guy and
they killed a lot of people but you know
I feel that that some people in the in
the Khmer Rouge are perfectly reasonable
and we can support that's kind of thing
okay what does debate do when it's
meaningful it draws someone else like
that and says look I want you to justify
why you believe what you believe what we
should do now in the future or why
things have in the past that is really
positive so there's a sense in which I'm
pro drama and I give examples of that in
my channel all the time and I think that
you know the types of debates we can get
into are not always meaningless and
shouldn't be regarded negatively and
some people basically attack my channel
by saying why would you critique other
vegans at all instead of just critiquing
meat-eaters so to me that's that's it to
me that's a really self-defeating point
of view and you know when we don't do
that then we're not gonna question you
what are we doing and why are we doing
it and we're not going to evolve we're
not going to progress we're not going to
plan for the future and a lot of the
conversations I have with vegans um in
terms of sorry I should clarify vegans
who are online vegans who are part of
the digital generation they're not
thinking about the next five years they
may not be thinking about the next three
months because one of the profound
effects that running a blog or YouTube
channel has on you is you tend to think
about your next upload you know period
like as you go to change and you know
your views change and you grow it you're
just trying to make things better people
don't expect things to change just like
we will discuss the other night you know
they expect it to be like the news and
you keep repeating yourself right right
and I mean that's the thing there's a
natural human tendency obviously to just
be interested in your own
well being your own private life and
your own day-to-day operations but I
mean for your own future you got a plan
the next groceries you buy or whatever
but it's interesting because I mean
something like YouTube then brings this
in the political sphere in a way it
never happened before again so I mean
like it's it's really easy for vegans to
criticize petta People for the Ethical
Treatment of Animals we all do it we
tend to kind of keep scoring on pet out
because they're not vegan enough and
they you know they do some kind of
stupid ad campaigns and we will get to
look down on them and feel superior but
I mean you think about pedo organizing a
conference the type of long-term
planning long-term relationship building
that goes into that in a lot of ways
they're they're putting us to shame or
they're putting the Thai fruit festival
in torren right into shame and it's
open to everybody writing pedda has
these conferences and yes people so
don't say stupid things you know pedda
made a big deal out of trying to get a
non leather seats into a luxury car they
did that with BMW and so some other
stuff it seems kind of embarrassing mm
and you know they do this sexy yeah some
some sub just seems embarrassing some of
the stuff they do and they have you know
the sexy girls in bikinis and some
people find that offensive and some
don't mosa but it's what you call a big
tent in politics anyone can join a lot
of people involved they employ people do
you know any vegan organization that
pays you a paycheck to a hundred people
or a thousand people and they have and
they have brought about real legal
changes they have brought about changes
to American national law that changed
regulations on vivisection maybe again
finding examples this and veganism are
rare there has been just recently a
couple months ago New Zealand passed
some new laws on on animal rights
actually so I mean there there's some
progress you can look around the world
and find examples of this yeah come
through in Europe and stuff like that
yeah yeah but anyway just say uh just
the act of organizing those people and
trying to get people together who really
disagree is very different from what we
tend to do on social media on YouTube
etc which is people working in a totally
isolated way and thinking in a tourney
oh well we tend to in social media is
working in a totally isolated way and in
a totally short-term way or it's one
person thinking about one blog and
thinking about their next upload or
maybe think about the next couple
weeks yeah right well right well no I
might I might say to you oh hey I know
about this cool thing that's happening
in Taiwan why don't you go there and
film it and put in your blog like that's
not evil it's just a natural way and
then maybe you're thinking just about
next three weeks but what's happening
the next five years what's happening
next ten years where any what you know
those are the kind of questions I asked
on my channel yeah sorry you know if we
if we're talking about during Rider and
freely and the tie through festival and
I guess so you know what we're talking
about it's just going more segregated
and we're not sort of planning for five
years ahead also looking at you know
henna and my and our channels and stuff
like that where you know things all of
us as you're saying all of us has said
stuff in the past and any of that can be
mish mashed into a latest video to you
know try and take down the next person
but like you say it's like a really
short term view to be looking at things
like that and it's not expecting people
to change and evolve and grow yeah yeah
so it's it's one of those things I guess
you know like what are we supposed to do
you know is it looking at change your
were you supposed to stay the same you
know is there any what I think I mean I
think that's one of the interesting
things to ask I'm trying not to make
every video much regret it but you know
I mean what is it that's so threatening
to freely about Hannah and what happened
with her I think in a sense you're
mentioning this issue of change well
hannya used to endorse the raw till 4
diet and she changed based on experience
now freely has seen this before with for
example unnatural vegan and others right
she's had a series of younger women a
forget there's no point listing of all
the names but quite a few younger women
tried the diet believed in it for some
period of time and then hit a breaking
point and said to one extent or another
this is misleading this is [ __ ] this
doesn't work where some of the claims
are false so I would guess that for
freely it's shocking to have hannya
added to that list now freely responds
to that as if it's a betrayal
haha to me that's already inherently
ridiculous you know like and Haney has
been very clear about why she said what
she said and what her you know what our
mandate is basically but I mean for
freely also her competition in a sense
is every younger good-looking woman on
Instagram who eats meat that's the
reality the world we live in if you're
basing your claims for veganism on as as
freely does that this is the only way to
be slim this is the only way to have a
tight waist which is what freely argues
and that's why she attacks anyone who
loses weight with any other method if
you lose weight with any other method
then you must be anorexic you must be
water fasting you must be binging or
purging or whatever she makes these
really damning accusations because
anyone else who loses weight with any
other method because she believes and
she wants others to believe that her
method is the only method and the
reality is it's not just Hanna who's a
threat to that any model on Instagram
who eats me is a threat to that because
they're proving the opposite all the
time there are all kinds of success this
why i say this part of the hollowness of
beauty i mean like you know free
yourself also so you're representing
that you're you're healthy you're
muscular and you're vegan but you know
there are a million good-looking men
whether their body builders or actors or
whatever who eat meat so ultimately it
can never it can never rest on that
basis alone there has to be something
more to it sure that yeah i guess a lot
of people also then attack the guys that
look good with other things claims of
steroids or restricting calories and
whatnot and all that sort of thing wish
you know little [ __ ] and i sort of died
anyway from what the doctors have said i
know we're probably getting into a
little bit of a you know difficult to
the territory is it is a restricted in
some sense plus it's none of it's ever
been proved and nor do any of the
doctors support that the plant-based
doctors yeah so that mean there are two
interesting issues there one is the
psychology of someone like freely or
durianrider attacking anyone who looks
good as being on steroids or being
secretly bulimic or whatever you know
i'm making these kinds of accusations
um well durianrider now claims that he's
a former anorexic I do not oh yeah it's
on his channel actually I quote him in
one of my videos where I have you know
clips from him in my comments oh no you
couldn't you can see that and I'll
clinically been talking to anybody and
I'm clinically recovered format so i can
speak with personal experience know what
but your reaction is telling because
it's like well why didn't you mention
that earlier it's it is a little bit
weird it's like well you've talked about
anorexia a lot and you never formally
mentioned that you were diagnosed with
anorexia and he claims he was later like
discharged like he was pronounced cured
of his anorexia so yeah it's it's a bit
it's a bit spooky but if if we take him
at his word that he really is an ex
anorexic that he's our recovered former
know he can video something like that
yeah yeah it's in his own I'm quoting
him I mean it's nobody it's not some
rumor or someone else started he
proclaimed this but if that's true then
again it looks really like part of the
anorexic mentality where it's like I'm
pretty you're not pretty if you are
pretty then I'm going to take you down
and denounce you by saying that you're
really on steroids this kind of really
childish mentality that is typical of
this this kind of anorexic mindset now
anyway durianrider also claims he has
other unspecified mental illnesses that
you know resulted in him being given
government benefits so it's hard to draw
too many conclusions from that that's
one side of it look on the science side
which the second thing you you happen to
mention there is not now and never has
been any debate about the fact that if
you eat more calories than you burn
you'll gain weight you gain body fat
with a very small threshold you can eat
a little bit too much though King body
fat there is a threshold like most
things in biology you can overdo it just
a little bit but if you do any more than
you gain body fat and you know there is
there durianrider freely have used every
trick in the book to try to distract you
from this and try to guilt trip you if
you question their logic to make you
feel guilty that you have a starvation
mentality that you have a have a an
anorexic mindset you know if you dare
or to believe that eating fewer calories
will help you to lose weight and so on
and you know I mean meanwhile the entire
medical establishment the entire history
of science in the Western world confirms
the opposite you know calories in versus
calories out and uh right yeah well no I
was also gonna say the actual
bodybuilders who are kind of friends
with freely interim rider who don't
criticize them still if you compare
their actual diet and actual diet advice
to freely enter in writer it's totally
incompatible that includes guys like
Abdullah at the glucose network if you
look at the reality but he says he's
considered an ally or a friend of freely
into a writer but the actual content of
what he says about nutrition is is
hostile to them it contradicts what they
say he's using calories in calories out
model yeah and he also says remember one
of his telling things about psychology
he just said you know I'm fat people lie
how much they eat suggesting the less
than they do and skinny people lie about
how much they say more than that you
like as a general pattern we all know
that from Western culture the slim woman
who says oh like a horse or the fat
purse you say nothing so it haha you put
the pieces together uh you know look so
you mentioned a bunch of other reversing
things this issue of just staying on
message as opposed to growing and
evolving YouTube great grinder look no
making it public or note that I've seen
anyway so you know correct me is like
the the doctor originally started at
3,000 calories and I've been down to two
and a half thousand calories and I think
it's dan 2,100 calories now like yeah
it's a thirty percent drop yes it's huge
and yet they still use the number 3000
verbally and the other thing about that
whenever you're looking at the number is
whether it's the 95 5 number or the
3,000 calvary number what is that based
on it's not based on experimental
evidence it's not based on a cohort
study like Nevada I know but I mean you
know those kinds of numbers like 3,000
calories 5,000 calories if you look at
the longest and cyclists like in the
training for the Tour de France they do
eat those kind
and of course they don't gain weight
because they're writing their you know
they're doing intensive hundreds of
kilometers of cycling so i really wonder
if it just reflects during riders
background with you know endurance
athletics that he took the number 3000
but you yeah but i mean you know if
you're just taking numbers out of thin
air if the diet did work it would just
be a coincidence because this is not
based on research it's not based on
anything it's not and it's not even
really based on anecdotal experience you
know like the type of anecdotal
experience you have if you've been a
counselor working with people you know
in a rehabilitation program or something
or sports medicine helping people
recover you might have anecdotal
experience like if you just stayed long
term with about 20 patients say okay
this is what I see working this is not
you can come up with guidelines second
but they don't they don't even have that
Uli's really just made up at a thin air
so you know and if the diet works for
you it's a miracle and I'm happy and
you're probably an endurance athlete
because that's what the diets decide for
so you know hey yeah leah is going to be
so many people that are gonna say this
and it and just have to dispute it at
some point because oh right because of
what we were saying you know that
they're bright much mentality I haven't
said that really politely but yeah if
you don't agree with them that's it you
know yeah well again I you know again I
question that in any political
organization that be a disaster but like
let's say I have a reason why I really
believe you shouldn't eat hummus maybe
its scientific maybe it's anecdotal
maybe it's based on my own experience
why wouldn't I just come on YouTube and
explain what the reason is why would I
accuse you of having a case of con
tinnitus of being an ungrateful [ __ ] of
like why would I treat you why would I
politically persecute you the way
they've they've persecuted Kenya like
just what is the point like either you
have a real reason to be against eating
hummus or you don't you know like like
if you do okay let's hear it and maybe
it's interesting and we can all move on
our lives but um instead it is this kind
of irrational hyper conform
just persecution complex like somehow
you're persecuting her if you want to
eat beans or you have any criticism of
Ted calories that diet itself yeah they
also goes a lot deeper you know on their
defense that it's they're claiming that
you know it worked at some point and now
the same doesn't work and you know and
you're saying one thing that it was you
know the videos the old times that she
was doing you know more high carb but
over time it didn't really work
long-term you know it works in the
beginning but eventually things start to
change and you realize that just your
regular vegan diet just you're just
vegan diet is is what it's about well
really hit her open that in that sense
the way there are two two aspects to
that so one is identical to unnatural
vegan which is just yeah in the past you
believe in the diet and now you don't
mess simple you know you learning
experience but a natural vegan with you
that no other people that but the second
is of chania being interested in this in
terms of converting others to veganism
so that's also the second is hania being
interested in converting others to
veganism and how it fits into the social
reality of having a job or raising kids
or being an old person and of saying no
I like basically some are as many
instead of saying no I don't want to
present veganism as something that's
only for elite athletes or something
that requires stocking up on organic
fruit and all this other stuff I want to
present veganism as an attainable goal
for mediocre middle class middle aged
people right whether that's eating
hummus or eating french fries you know
i'm french fries are not great for your
health but so what it's vegan I point
out much cocaine is not good for your
health but it is vegan I'm not encourage
you to use cocaine but like the reality
of how broad veganism is as opposed to
trying to make this this kind of title
tired of thing but I mean you know one
of the disadvantages of youtube is that
most of the leadership roles have gone
to people who happen to be good-looking
and happen to have a certain kind of
personality I've said before on this
channel normally it's the stand-up
comedian personality it's someone who
wants Fame who wants attention
and it was also a little bit vulnerable
where if they don't get that attention
they're going to really respond or lash
out so it's it's certain types of people
have come on camera you know again it's
a credit to him like I'm now friends
with vegan cheetah but I said that at
one point is a criticism of him was
saying look this is the kind of guy [ __ ]
who comes on YouTube and gets famous
through social media he's gorgeous you
know he's a bodybuilder he looks great
and you could feel it across you know
the camera that he you know he's oh he
wants to be an entertainer oh you don't
know okay wait wait but you know that's
that was really his his MO back in those
days you know he wants your attention he
does a lot of live streaming now um you
know he and and if he doesn't get it he
gets hurt and upset you see that
reaction to a lot of stand-up comics
like that a lot of people entertainment
um but I think a lot of people they had
hopes for the type fruit festival to be
something it never could be and I mean
they had taught hopes for the Thai fruit
festival to be something that it never
it never could be and today I mean I
feel like it's it's now going into the
past tense well they've already renamed
it the Thai bike festival and kicked
everyone out and tried to make it a much
more narrow event which was really
really making explicit something that
formerly was implicit that you aren't
you aren't wanted there if you aren't
exactly their their kind of person and
and aren't a you know devoted follower
though all their teachings but again
compare that to people for the ethical
treatment of animals it's so easy to
heap scorn on pettah and say pedda is no
good and whatever well you know five
years from now who's still going to be
standing what's really going to be
important and what's happening in the in
the vegan community or what will have
any hope for veganism and again like
here in Canada I despise the Green Party
I heap scorn on the Green Party the
Green Party is not vegan at all the
Green Party wants to give more money to
the dairy industry they want to support
the rape and murder of cows and all this
crap but it could change in the next
five years and if you go to the Green
Party you don't have to own a bicycle
and be on strava you don't have to be an
athlete you don't have to be beautiful
you don't to be thin you don't have to
subscribe to a ridiculous thing
about how many calories you should eat
to lose weight so there's at least some
hope where there's some potential there
as I say when I look at what those guys
have done I see absolutely no hope an
absolute no potential and I think I mean
one of the good things about YouTube is
that people feel my sincerity and saying
that I'm not saying that to just be
provocative that's really the conclusion
of come to that's the way we want it to
go because it's about abundance and
giving people options as to how they
want to pursue veganism you know it's
not that we want the thing to go down I
don't know a lot of people are out there
wanting you know feeling highly to fail
and I want your progress if you
disappear but this right is not what
it's about so look I don't disagree
they're gonna go a step further there is
such an irony here because I have so
much in common with the people who hate
me in Chiang Mai I did long-distance
cycling I used to do more than a hundred
kilometers a day in Thailand I first
short period time you didn't go for more
no no no no but it's not the meaning of
life for me but I have that experience I
rode my bike from VN chenda Chiang Mai
one time at the entrance capital city of
Laos so that was going west to the
mountains I don't remember but yet going
along the Mekong River really curvy road
and up and down hills beautiful very
memorable very hard trip anyway but you
say sir I've done long-distance cycling
I've lived in that part of Asia I've
lived in Thailand and even I really have
considered opening a small hotel at
several points but I'm still like in the
future it's possible do that it's
possible I will live a life
fundamentally what no but that's I was
gonna say I'm not so different from Joe
best you know in the near future I could
be living in a situation not so
different from Joe best in in a lot of
ways fundamentally I should be an ally
of these people we were natural friends
not natural enemies we all want to
support veganism and the abolition of
animal agriculture of some kind you know
there's so much common ground there and
yet you see this hostility and
infighting and you know again like
there's always question i'm not i'm not
opposed to compromise but what would any
of us get from compromised hania the
reason why
the example penny is so significant is
that hey yeah for my compromise with
freely ordering writer I think this the
significance of hangings experience the
reason why so many people react what
happened aha yeah is that hania shows
that it's it's useless to compromise no
matter how flattering you are or how
polite you are what happened to hanging
out will happen to you know already we
already saw it happen to a whole bunch
of other people but I mean I just say
the example of chania is telling so so
that no compromise is possible No so oh
but no but I don't want them to fail
sure like dial back to 2013 or something
I would have absolutely have nothing
could be better for me than if there was
a cosmopolitan vegan movement based in
Chiang Mai Thailand they'll be
incredibly convenient for me I'm gonna
if I'm going to move back to kunming now
which is my plan I could easily visit
and participate and be part of the
Chiang Mai seen it would be be great for
me same way of anyone in the world I I
speak the language there I don't know I
don't know no [ __ ] does anyone in the
Chiang Mai scene actually speak Thai
does anyone in the chain my scene
actually speak Thai I don't know even
yeah I don't know if even one example
but I do so I mean for me sure I could
have in theory I could have opened a
hotel like Joe best I could have gotten
involved in as heavily and in theory I
still could if it wasn't you know
self-destructing already sure this could
have been something really positive in
my life personally and I could have
contributed to what they're trying to do
/ you know in theory having a guy like
me around who speaks Thai and wants to
help maybe I could help more than Joe
best maybe not I'm you know but no but
I'm just saying this is just illustrate
like there there is no inevitable
hostility here not you know like there's
no force of nature that separates us and
makes us enemies and again hannya proves
it what you know and I think Henny will
be fine if I came on and made a video
about why I think you shouldn't eat
hummus like you know this is the effect
hummus has had in my life let's hit the
background like a ghost
oh we were just talking about hummus
thank you I'm good orange juice a huge
cool fringes no i don't i think it's
secretly coffee I wish here we go i can
show him there we go point proven that
you know it's just to prove a point
probably like doing Radha he says you
take steroids we probably not taking
real steroids but my point is if I came
on and made a video for some reason I
think you shouldn't eat hummus what you
know hey Nia wouldn't turn around and
attack me like everything oh that's
weird that's interesting I mean I might
be guys that were you shooting comments
like it's not a it's a I've so you don't
aim and what what can I tell you history
is full of of these kinds of sad ironies
why does one person end up in charge of
a movement at a certain period of time I
in some ways we all know the answer and
you know and in some ways we all gotta
move on yeah so yeah I guess the like we
were just saying is well the differences
between that side of things and the
homeless side of things you know
especially hangar and trailing doing on
a case with it's like they felt it went
a bit deeper like it was a and people
are out there just to make money and
that sort of thing out of life I guess
not considering what they've you know
where they've come from and what they
continue to promote in regards to making
money what they do on their channels you
know how to eat how their diets have
change without actually you know
specifically mentioning that to people
well right but I mean that that is
complete [ __ ] I mean we know what no
no but you so you have been accused of
being only motivated by money at being
corporate what corporation you
uh no but um do you think you know Joe
best isn't trying to make money I don't
blame him he's running a small hotel
like I don't I don't think that's evil
he said but but also let's be clear what
I didn't but what I did in Southeast
Asia was charity okay when I was handing
out sacks of rice to starving people
that's charity that I'm not doing for
money Joe best running a small hotel is
not a charity it's a business and that's
fine but only the enemies only the
enemies of freely and durianrider are
said to be motivated by money and their
friends are not so I don't know you tell
me Sean Lee is about as corporate as it
gets but he's not accused of this you
know you are right so I mean anyone they
turn against they say is motivated by
money and its corporate and it has no
gratitude real vegan is aunty vegan it's
a familiar act by now because they've
done to so many people many people still
being fooled by it hello okay you know
you know you know I keep it real my
honest answer is you know stupid it
quickly incorrect one you keep it real
stupidity is real man I mean stupidity
Israel the number one question I get
asked is why don't I want to have an
open comment section on my channel what
percentage of comments on these videos
you know would you honestly say are
stupid now like it's not even mean to
say this stuff is due because when you
acknowledge that it's stupid you're
acknowledging that there aren't you know
evil intentions there these people
aren't really scheming to destroy anyone
but yeah I mean you know stupidity is
real stupidity is a is a powerful force
on earth like gravity that keeps the
earth turning around the Sun Wyatt why
do people believe this crap because
they're stupid because they're on an ego
trip because they want to believe and
that's an ugly side of human nature that
sooner or later as we all grow up you
get to know you get to know pretty well
well sorry say one more thing with that
like people people ask me why I don't
have an open compensation and so on you
know I don't respect everyone's opinion
like let's stop pretending if I if I
talk to you Jason and I say I do respect
your opinion almost by definition that
means there's someone else's opinion I
don't respect so that's also a strange
part of the internet game is like
pretending we respect everyone's opinion
pretending everyone is equal when you
know the inequalities are really stark
to bring this back to you guys in a
weird way like I made that video talking
about Israel you may or may not have
seen it and this other vegan youtuber
who made comments on Israel and one of
the comments one of the fundamental
things I just said was look like how
many years have you spent studying the
israel-palestine conflict or how many
months or how many weeks because coming
on YouTube and speaking at a complete
ignorance were not all equal and I said
to myself I could have chosen to become
an expert in the israel-palestine
conflict and I didn't I chose to study
Cambodia and Laos and some other stuff I
chose take another route so I have to
have the humility to recognize my own
ignorance right so ignorance is also a
form of inequality right and I mean with
all this stuff I am NOT an expert on
Crohn's disease the guy who emailed me
about that the medical student he knows
a lot more than I do I think a lot of
people do but I ended up being the guy
to make that statement so you know yeah
about durianrider saying that he has
Crohn's disease and the implication that
does he he says that sometimes if he
gave an interview with the rich roll
podcast I had a fan right in to warn me
about that I think it's between the
15-minute mark in the 17 minute mark if
anyone wants to check with during
writers interview with retro yeah you
cut out for just a second there anyway
15-minute mark the 17 minute mark in
that durianrider says he never was
medically diagnosed with Crohn's disease
now from my perspective that's about as
shocking and disturbing as claiming you
have hiv/aids and then later revealing
that you don't but it's more shocking
when you consider in the old days of
their act freely enduring writer were
supporting the idea of being healed
through your diet and of claiming not
only that he had Crohn's disease that he
was dyed into the back he was cured so
now we're now we're into the same level
of scam as like a faith healer you know
the number one way to have a miracle
healing for someone with cancer is to
get a fake diagnosis in the first place
if I get you falsely diagnosed with
cancer and then I perform a magical
ritual or I pray to God or whatever and
then we'd go and do a scan and you don't
have cancer the easiest way to do that
is to fake it at step one is to falsely
diagnosed you with cancer in the first
place so yeah if you falsely claim you
out of disease you never had now you're
cured that's a scam of another kind if
you falsely claimed to have a disease
that you never had and then afterwards
you claim you or cured then that's a
scam of another kind but I mean look
these are the people who've been in this
leadership role in veganism I mean with
diseases and stuff like that like when I
was recalling that the thing that the
reason why didn't you know sort of pick
up when I know I didn't want to mention
it too much more because it was usually
related to veganism you know they've got
these diseases and they have these
obesity's and they had these mental
issues but now veganism diet the vegan
diet has cured them so I guess a lot of
us me as well we just we just put that
on the back burner and just say yeah
that's fine you know if you want to make
that up and say big it is imputed great
that's a great promotional tool to get
people to come over onto a vegan diet
okay so that reason other it really
interesting point me another vegan
youtuber who I would consider famous
wrote to me asking a question I won't
say who was but another vegan youtuber
wrote to me basically saying well even
if this stuff is not true shouldn't we
kind of support it because it promotes
veganism now a lot of people believe
that whether it's about the the healings
of Matt you know magical healing of
diseases or if it's about the
psychological aspects or if it's about
weight loss claims that we all know or
impossible lose weight while eating
3,000 calories and getting zero exercise
zero exercise with you guys Gunther
you're getting game way pretty fast
anyway the the laws of physics gonna
catch up with you um you know so he was
asking the same question you're alluding
to if shouldn't we support it anyway
because it spreads veganism I would
parallel this to things I've said about
Buddhism on my youtube channel already
no I do not want to be part of a
religion that is based on a lie I do not
think there's any moral justification
for basing your religion or accepting
donations because almost all religions
are based on donations these days
including Buddhism on the basis of lying
to people of saying I'm gonna do
something I'm not going to do or I'm
going to give you a magical amulet
that's supposed to have effects it's not
really going to have to to me there is
almost no justification for that we can
come up with a desert island situation
but no I I don't want to be part of a
religion based on a lie I don't want
part of a political movement based on a
lie I don't want to be part of a diet
based on selling people lie so you know
no that's a profound important ethical
difference and we all claim we're better
than the the meat industry right we all
claim we're better than the lies by the
egg industry or the dairy industry
telling you the most well are we better
live up to it prove it right it means
telling the truth even when the truth is
inconvenient here's an inconvenient
truth getting enough calcium on a vegan
diet is not easy really do the math for
how much broccoli you have to eat to get
enough calcium it's a damn lot of
broccoli you know what well anyway if
you if you're eating fruit that contains
calcium or what have you it's possible
I'm just saying I'm just saying many
many people will not have a diet that
really provides them with enough calcium
of course you can take a pill to catch
up but it's it is possible you look you
a vegan diet right well selenium is a
great example but if the veniam is not
easy to get enough of unless you plan
ahead unless you eat Brazil nuts or
other specific foods so why lie to
people if you tell people you don't need
to worry about any nutritional
deficiencies as long as you're eating a
Whole Foods plant-based vegan diet
that's quoting freely verbatim she said
that a thousand times well it's not true
so do you want to be better than the
dairy industry or not do you want to be
better than an industry that says eggs
and bacon are part of a complete
breakfast or not or do you want to lie
and say your lies are justified by
promoting veganism I don't I don't want
to be part of a religion that's about
living a lie or selling a liar boring
life so that's I'd say that's that's a
point of principle you know I had to
uncover myself long time ago using using
but as an example you could also use
communism or some other political
examples that have religious it we can
go very much deeper through all those
political examples and some other video
but i think it's thanks so much to that
man like it's given us h to talk about
lots to think about i'm sure we'll do
some more videos coming up really soon
if that's cool with you cool great it's
great talking you I say I mean I'm
delighted to hear that you guys are
inspired but I think you know the
fundamental thing is for everyone who's
crestfallen and disappointed with
durianrider and freely we have an old
fashioned saying in English don't for
everyone he feels disappointed if
everyone feels crestfallen with what's
happened with freely and durianrider
which includes you and hen yup we have
an old fashioned saying in English don't
chase replace don't chase after them
replace them you want something better
than the Thai food festival I do to make
it happen anyone can rent a room anyone
can start a festival you can start it in
Haifa in Israel you could start it in
Malaysia you could start you know but I
mean you know the potential is there the
reason why there was so much interest
drawn to this meaningless festival where
they didn't do anything interesting they
rode their bicycles up and down the hill
they gave their QA yeah no I know I know
but my right but my point is the
international interest in it the level
of interest too focused on it reflects
the fact that there's an appetite for
this around the world there are people
who want this kind of festival to be a
focus for hope social change political
organization sure dietary advice also
but like the fact that there are people
in Germany and America and Australia all
interested in this most of these people
had never heard of Chiang Mai before
Chiang Mai is not that famous you know
Thailand made me feel not Chiang Mai you
know the fact that this event took on
such importance of
the Internet in just a few years with
all the in common and just how kind of
boring the festival is at shows that
there's potential there and I think I
think a lot of people are interested in
the positive example of what's happening
in Israel that Israel has just in the
last 10 years created a vegan culture
out of nothing I think I mean I think
you could have a really interesting
festival there and other people seeing
this around the world maybe you've got
the the potential you know as I say
don't chase replace whatever it is it's
frustrated you or disappointed you
whatever this didn't live up to really
think about the resources it would take
to do something better I think it's
literally an attainable goal for you and
Hannah you know if we start thinking
long term we start thinking about who we
can cooperate with and you know it
definitely has to be like a big
cooperation between many people across
different that's what we want to do
Israel Highland us Pastrana right right
but on the other hand um you know Joe
best in Chiang Mai managed just reserve
a bunch of rooms make something happens
does so it doesn't take a genius it
doesn't take a lot of people it doesn't
take a lot of money you know you you
know so it's it's attainable that's
what's say and there really is you can
see I mean so many people with goodwill
wanted this thing to work and wanted
slim pause to come out of it despite all
the problems with that year after year
and I think you see that with a lot of
failed vegan initiatives you know the
woodstock fruit festival was a disaster
who's all this goodwill yeah let's not
talk about it but you know um you know
like there is this there is this pent-up
demand and again that reflects the
failure of other institutions the
failure of petta the failure of the
Green Party you know the failure of
other institutions people are looking
around for a new outlet for a new a new
focus point to to bring this together
and make something positive happen as
possible I deposited night yeah great
talking to Jason thanks so much man and
this before you got guys don't shake it
idles channel
the link is down below but wicked videos
about a show a ballast yell they'll find
it thanks next year in Israel